first init

Chapter 2
Snow ran an experiment that involved trying to figure out if the cause of all the deaths
in London during 1850 were due to the water contamination of one of the pumps. In order to
be believed, he needed to run a controlled experiment between two groups of people that
demonstrated his point. 

The groups needed to be as similar as possible, up to the point where the only difference
was the intake of different sources of water between the groups. He conducted the study
and proved the causality between the rampant deaths and a specific source of contaminated
water. This is one of the best examples of running a randomized controlled experiment 
back in the day.

This strategy of choosing two similar groups at random with the only difference being the
"treatment" you give one of the groups is a good way to prove causality of something.
Make sure when choosing the groups that a placebo is given to the other group, or take
some preventative measures such that one group doesn't know about the experiment, which
could alter the results.

When it is NOT possible to do a randomized controlled experiment, one must do an observational
experiment. This is where you aren't conducting the experiment yourself but you are observing
an "association" between two things. An observational experiment would need to take place if
you were trying to see the relationship between alcoholic mothers that are pregnant and how it
affects the kids. You shouldn't expect to create two groups where one group is willing to drink
alcohol while pregnant.

Another thing with observational experiments is that you need to be careful of confunding factors.
These things are the key differences between two groups that you are trying to create a causality between.
Confunding factors may be the actual cause of something you are trying to figure out. For example, if you
are trying to relate coffee drinking with lung cancer, it would be hard to create two groups in which things
are similar between them. It was noted that there was an "association" of increased lung cancer with people
who drink coffee, but it was also noted that people who drink coffee also liked to smoke, and we know
that smoking is actually the cause of lung cancer in this case. This shows that confunding factors hinder
any casuality that we may be trying to prove.

When making observational experiments, you must be very careful of confunding factors.




Chapter 3.4
Introduction to Tables.

We can make and import tables in python. We will see later how to do this, but
look (the table has a name, and you can do things to it):

table_name.show(2) # this shows the first two rows with all columns.
table_name.select("Flavor") # this shows the column of Flavor with all rows.
You can select multiple columns to show.

table_name.drop('Color') # This returns the whole table with the Color column removed.

You can save this new table to a variable and display it without changing the original table.
Like this:

no_colors = cones.drop('Color')

no_colors



Chapter 3.4.2 Sorting
You can sort a table based on one of the columns. It is default ascending order.
Like this:

table_name.sort("Price")

You can do descending if you mark that attribute as true.

cones.sort('Price', descending=True)

We can sort tables with a 'where' clause that takes the column and the condition.

cones.where('Flavor', 'chocolate')

When you print a table with just its name, it shows only the first 10 rows unless you want all of them.
Then you do this:

table_name.show()